Hey everyone, welcome back to the design module and today we're going to be
talking about brand aesthetic.
Now this is personally my favorite thing to do when I start walking on a new
app or a new project.
A brand brings a business to life and so I usually always start with that.
Counter-intuitively, we started this design module with wireframing and I
suppose that's how most people do things.
But for me it's always about brand first. So I'd love to do this little deep
dive into what makes Quitter so good and successful in its own niche,
how to build an app for your niche and how to get inspired by other brands that
you like.
So let's start.
The most important thing to know is that you need your brand to resonate with
your target demographic.
You can't just build something that you think is cool if it doesn't appeal to
the people you are targeting.
For example, UBO, they have a great and very clean UI.
It's a bit like Snapchat, you know, it's yellow, it's color-force, popping.
But like, this doesn't feel very professional. This doesn't feel very serious.
This feels a bit like a joke or a school project, which is great when you're
targeting Gen Z or younger individuals, which they do.
But let's say this is an app to find a lawyer, right?
Lawyer and law is a very serious topic.
And so these bright colors and these lowercase lettering and these big fonts,
et cetera, and these emojis specifically as well,
it isn't professional. No one's going to take you seriously if you're trying to
be a lawyer app.
I'm trying to find the plural version of that, but I can't.
So yeah, there's another example.
So if I want to build a calorie tracking app for everyone, I'm going to use
very simple colors.
And I'm not going to pull any demographic in one way.
And it's going to be like all inclusive. So it's hard to really like explain
what I mean by that.
But Kali Eyes shows no humans. It shows no faces.
As soon as they do that, they're pushing a demographic onto you.
Whereas with Yibo, you can see young people, or at least relatively young, will
make this bigger for the sake of the video.
You can see relatively young people. These are all under like 25 years old and
like mostly females.
Actually, almost everyone's a female funny enough. So that's pushing that app
towards a certain demographic.
Whereas for a calorie tracking app, they are not showing any humans.
So anyone that's watching it feels like this could be for them.
They're not influenced by other factors like an image of a human that is older
or is, you know, got a family or kids, whatever.
Very important when it comes to appealing to your niche.
Next, we have Quitter.
And like, why is Quitter successful? So we targeted Gen Z and younger people
specifically.
And the traditional Quitting Point apps weren't cool.
They put you in a box. They made you feel like you had this serious issue.
They had like these intensive programs. They were showing pictures of older men
.
I'll show you in a second what I mean. And it didn't really appeal to younger
people.
So they were underserved and they had nowhere to go.
And they just suffered with this addiction pretty much the entire time. They
had no solutions.
And so look at our competitor now.
So this is a really bad competitor. And straight away, you can tell there's a
massive difference.
This feels super engaging. This feels really cool. And this makes me want to
download the app.
As a young guy, I see a lot of colors. I see orbs. I see streaks. I see a gam
ified weird quip.
I'm like hell fucking yeah.
Whereas here, I see an old guy maybe in his like 30s, mid 30s.
This is quip porn and masturbation. That language itself is a bit vulgar and
like, it's just a bit cringe.
Whereas with us, we just make it like simple. Just quip porn now.
Just quip porn for life. Like, instead of quip porn and master. Like, come on
bro.
No one really appeals to that. Next track time and money saved.
This doesn't really appeal to Gen Z. I don't think Gen Z are spending money on
porn.
They're just like watching it for free. So this is completely missing the mark
when it comes to the younger demographic.
But as you can see, they still have 400 ratings. So whatever niche and sorry,
whatever demographic they are targeting is working.
But, you know, the most important thing to pull from this, it doesn't feel cool
. It feels like a chore.
And, you know, no young person. You're never going to see a young person using
this for sure or not.
And like, we'll get right into the details. Like, the data doesn't lie.
Most of our downloads come from under 18 year olds.
Now, sure, not everyone has a credit card to paying and actually use our app.
But most of the traffic comes from people that are under 18.
So whatever messaging we're doing is working. And I bet if we compare the data
to this, and of course it's not open source,
so we can't confirm. But I bet no one under like 25 is downloading this.
But yeah, that's like the whole point with niches and brand aesthetics.
Like maybe Quiddo won't appeal to older people because they're like, what the
fuck is this?
I want something actually serious and tangible. This feels like an actual
program. This feels like a program pretty much.
Whereas this is like, this feels like a game.
So super important to note when it comes to brand aesthetics, like understand
your demographic, understand who you are targeting.
Because if you get the messaging wrong, you're not going to succeed in who you
're targeting.
Or you won't target the right people. So yeah, I'm going to show you how to
build a brand and how I would start building a brand based on the example
design, which is a test on Storone Max app.
Now, there are obviously two ways to spend this. You could be targeting older
gym guys who are like in their 30s who take steroids that want to be super,
super test test.
Test, test Oster Roned to the max. I've never used this macro so my apologies.
But they want to be tested to the max. They want to be fucking ripped. They
want to be super masculine, et cetera, et cetera.
So that is one way, one demographic that we can target.
The other is just young people that listen to Andrew Tate, for example, and
they're like, oh, I want to get my test Oster and up.
I think that would be really cool. Like maybe I would attract girls.
So I'm going to show you two versions of how I would build this for an older
demographic and for younger demographic.
So one of the core principles when it comes to younger is use things that are
relatable.
One of those things could be emojis. So as you can see, I'm probably going to
start this with an emoji.
Now, there are a few apps that do this.
Is it super professional? No, but that's the point. You're targeting a far
younger demographic.
So this is just less important. So here's the emoji we're going to use. We're
going to make it a little bit smaller.
There we go.
And then I'm going to change this background to be, yeah, that feels, or maybe
like a slated gray.
Like that. And then maybe I have text saying test max.
Max is a very mu age word. So it works for the younger demographic.
And we'll just do enter. That's fine. And I'll make this about 300, maybe 225.
Cool. And then I'll give it a stroke, a black stroke. We'll make it a bit
larger, maybe 10.
There we go. We'll just make this stroke green.
Or we make the text green and stroke black. Stroke black. Text green.
Yeah. This is honestly solid. Now, of course, you can say from a design
standpoint, this isn't very clean.
But it is definitely polarizing and you need to be capturing young people's
attentions.
So this would low key actually work. Maybe the stroke makes it look un
professional.
Maybe I'll just do a drop shadow instead.
Maybe a black stroke slightly. Five. Okay. That low key works.
So again, not super professional. We can make another version of this as well.
Probably without a chop as the main. We'll center this, make it about 350.
And then the spacing between, I believe that is this way.
Minus 50. Oh shit. What about vertical scaling though?
You know what is fine, I guess for now. I don't know how to use that well.
But this could work.
As a younger demographic or for younger demographic, this could totally,
totally work.
Seems really stupid, but you get the vibe I'm trying to go for.
Now, let me show you how to build a very serious older demographic.
Let me show you how to build a brand aesthetic for an older demographic based
on the same idea.
So this is going to be feeling a little bit more professional.
And maybe we get like a syringe or some test. Like something like, I can't have
emojis.
I also wouldn't put text in. Yeah, like I would probably do something like this
, honestly.
This feels more legit. All the older guys will know exactly what this means.
Maybe just TM.
And that's in the center. And then we'll just lower the opacity of this by like
50%.
Maybe even more 30. 15. There we go.
Loki, this feels more professional and this feels more like a school project.
So I would design the TM.
Alright everyone, so now I'm going to show you how I would design the brand
aesthetics for the two different demographics of the test Austro Maxing app.
So I've already started this a little bit, but for the older demographic, we
want it to feel more professional and more serious and more like get shit done.
Because that's like these older guys motto is like I'm fueled with testosterone
, I'm jacked, I'm ripped, I'm massive, I'm scary and I want to scare you in the
process.
So all of these massive fonts and like bolded text and all caps, very
intentional.
It literally appeals to that demographic so much that they're like okay holy
shit, this is for me.
Even the app icon, it isn't that engaging, but if you know you know.
And these big testosterone heads, they know that they're symbol behind,
signifies testosterone.
So they're like okay whoever made this app knows what they're doing.
And this feels again very serious and very legit.
Whereas if we want to target a younger demographic, maybe they don't really
care as much, but they want to test it out and they want to do it in a fun way.
They don't want to destroy the competition like we say here.
They maybe want to subtly increase testosterone by playing a few games, but
they want to increase their testosterone in a game and fight away.
They want to have fun, like they're young people at the end of the day, they
don't want to go all in.
So for the younger demographic, we choose emojis and this is because emojis are
very relatable and yeah, young people use them a lot.
So it makes sense to leverage that kind of cultural significance within our app
icon and our branding.
So look at the difference here.
Test Max become manly.
It's way more passive, it's way more you know, it's easier to be a part of.
And then the line is like get jacked with easy steps.
People, young people want to cut corners, they don't really want to go all in.
So this makes more sense to them.
And a gamified weight increase testosterone.
Again, super super passive, but it also explains what the app does.
So young people will be like, okay, you know, this, I see the emoji, I see the
green font.
This seems like everything I want to achieve out of getting testosterone, I'm
going to try it.
Whereas like if I was an old guy and I saw this, I'd be like, okay, like I
bought too much fucking testosterone to weight around and get jacked with easy
steps.
I want to go fucking hard.
So when they read this, become the ultimate you, destroy the competition.
This is the one that will download and this is the one that will pay for.
This feels like a school project, but low key, if you are targeting a young dem
ographically, that's what you want.
Of course, this is a little bit difficult because we're talking about
testosterone maxing out and like our young people super interested in that.
Not sure.
If this was a social app, again, this would be really easy to sell to with emoj
is and big fonts, et cetera.
So a thing to note is
to reiterate, the most important thing about a brand is how much you appeal to
whatever demographic you're targeting.
And so you need to get these things right.
And my best advice when it comes to designing a brand, designing a product that
you end up selling and making money from and building a brand from, is just be
the consumer yourself.
For example, Zach, well, actually, I'm going to use me as an example, but I don
't want to, it's not like I'm fucking joking off every day.
I'm just saying like, I'm going to use me as an example.
I went down self improvement and, you know, quitting porn is a part of that.
The reason it's so difficult in self improvement is because it's so accessible.
The algorithms are filled with this soft, cool, porn material because that gets
the most engagement.
And so anyone that's trying to quit kind of just battles with themselves, there
's no real good solution.
So I was like, okay, what if I made it fun, made it cutting edge, and I made it
cool to actually begin quitting?
So I was that person.
So I knew exactly what I would pay for and what I would use. So I just built it
.
Now, of course, this isn't like super tangible advice because you could be the
demographic and it could still, like the brand said this could still suck.
But the most important things to know are if it's for younger people, just try
and make it a bit more cool and a little bit more relaxed and laid back.
And if it's for older people, kind of just make it seem more professional, more
serious and more like a program.
And it could be more boring as well.
And so, yeah, another big advice.
And you know what, I'll close this by saying anything you do when it comes to
your color scheme, your font sizes and your language, don't switch it up at all
throughout your app.
Make sure your brand is cohesive and it's representing itself in almost
everything you do.
As soon as you start mixing fonts together, you lose that brand aura.
Now, it is fine if the font isn't completely the same. Like maybe I want to do
this Canada.
I think this is low key fine, but any more than three different fonts, it won't
work.
It just feels sloppy.
And brands gain respect because you fill the time, the dedication, the
messaging throughout it.
Quitter is such a strong brand because we've been here around for a year, we've
put a bunch of cool stunts, we're on a mission to take down the porn industry,
the UI is super fucking clean, the app works really well.
And that's how we built our brand.
But if we started using all these brand different colors and didn't represent
the brand as true to itself and always try to do different shit, it was hard to
pretend to be explained what I mean by that.
But stick to your core messaging and don't switch it up.
Actually, I can give a great example.
And this is so off topic, but it kind of works.
This is my profile picture.
It's me looking up the sky blue background from a year ago.
This has built a brand.
I've built a brand in myself by repping this profile picture.
As soon as I change my profile picture, I'm going to need to build my brand
again.
Now of course it's going to be easier because I'm using the Alex Slater name,
but it's generally a bad strategy to switch up branding.
And even Quitter, Quitter's logo has not changed since the beginning.
Our mission has not changed since the beginning.
And so one of my greatest advice is just stick to what you have, as long as you
're happy with it of course, and keep growing that.
Don't change things around.
You can change the App Store screenshots.
They aren't really that important.
If you want to use the language, the fonts, the logo, try to keep that uniform
throughout everything you do.
And so if I went into this app, maybe I would copy the font that I just used
from my super serious version.
So what font is this?
Can it?
So go into this.
And instead of "inter", we use "can it".
There you go.
And maybe we want to make this all caps.
Facial analysis.
There we go.
And then we'll have the logo, "TM", right?
We'll copy this.
"TM", or "testo".
Or maybe we want this to be the "can it" off one, which also works.
So having a different font for the logo and like different font for the text,
for the text, works well too.
We see this with Instagram, we see this with Twitter, etc.
And that's how you build a brand.
101, how you build a brand.
But yeah.
I'm going to move this down a copy here just so you guys are aware.
Shit.
But yeah.
Peace out boys.